Hey, everybody. Kevin at Woodcraft here.
And today we're going to make one of these cheese slicer kits.
These make great quick last minute gifts.
And they're one of my favorite ways to use up offcuts.
In fact, I've got this piece of Sarari Rosewood
that was already almost the perfect size.
It's about seven inches long
and a trimmed it down to four and three quarter inches wide
because I'm going to be using one of our smaller kits.
If you're using one of the large kit, all the steps are gonna be the same,
but your measurements will vary.
So be sure to refer to the instructions that come with your kit.
First thing we have to do is drill a quarter inch hole on the end of the board.
Two and 7/8 inches deep.
In order to locate that hole, we're going to measure on the right
end of the board, four and a quarter inches out to the far side.
You can set up a fence to do this on your drill press,
but you want to make sure your hole centered.
So one of my favorite ways to do this is with a doweling jig,
you won't be able to get the full depth with the doweling jig on,
so you're going to go most of the way, take the jig off,
and then use that hole as a guide to drill the rest of the way.
A little side note here.
On the large kit you need a hole that’s three and 7/8 inches deep.
That's longer than most bits I've come across, even without the doweling jig.
So I personally like to use this ten inch long bit from fish.
Now, once we've drilled our hole,
we're going to measure from the side with the hole two inches in,
and we're gonna make a single saw curve on the face of the board.
Now the instructions say 3/8 of an inch thick,
but depending on how thick your material is
and how centered you have that hole, it might change.
We want the blade to be just a hair above that hole that we drilled,
because when we slide the hardware in,
we need room for the wire to fit over the hardware.
Now, to make it a little nicer, we'll give it an edge treatment.
And as much as I love chamfers, I think a round over looks really great
on these cheese slicers.
Then you're going to sand it like normal, because this is a kitchen kit
and it's going to come into contact with food.
You're going to want to wash it,
so make sure to raise the grain while you're sanding.
When it comes to finish,
you can absolutely just treat this like a cutting board
and use your mineral oil and your beeswax and you'll be totally fine.
But technically,
since you're not actually cutting on the wood,
you could do something a little more durable if you wanted to.
Now for final assembly, you'll notice
your hardware bar has a long end and a short end with a hole in it.
We're going to put the handle onto the short end with the hole in it,
but we're not going to install the set
screw yet
then we’ll take the long end and we're going to feed it
through the hole that we drilled.
Just until we see it
show up in the kerf, then we’re going to take the other end of that wire
and loop it around the bar and push it the rest of the way in.
We're going to rotate that handle up
to tension the wire and now you install that screw.
You may have to pull the bar out a little bit
so that your wire lines up with that kerf cut.
Now you're ready to cut the cheese.
If you'd like to pick up some of these cheese slicer
kits or anything else for your woodworking need, be sure
to head over to your local Mario store or online to MarioCheese.com